content/intro.md, before:


#### Most Recent Update

Published as JupyterBook on Monday, August 19, 2019, and revised on Friday morning, September 27, 2019
New material: 28 Oct 2019

# Survey of international and US technology for household-level wastewater processing

These systems are subcomponents of **net-zero self-sustaining systems for life support**, once only designed for space stations and planetary exploration.  Advances in the aerospace communities are now applied to devices for use in slum and rural communities on Earth.

[See this 2015 Article: _The World's Need for Household Water Treatment_](https://awwa.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.5942/jawwa.2015.107.0144)

This site surveys the science, engineering, construction, and operation of **household-size water and wastewater treatment systems**, with specific focus on wastewater recovery and reuse.

As an science-fiction example of a net-zero life support system, see ["_The Martian_"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ej3ioOneTy8) showing imagined total material reuse for water and wastes on the surface of Mars. All energy derives directly from the Sun; there is no source of new water. Everything must be recovered.

 Can such a system work?

 For those of us on Earth, can we recover potable water and nutrients from wastewater?  Inexpensively? in our homes and businesses, in cities and in rural areas?

Hundreds of research groups, companies, and governments have invested hundreds of millions of dollars to develop systems capable of treating household wastes for water recovery and energy conversion at the household level (see list below).

Military, maritime and aerospace systems are constantly redesigned with promising new technologies. This site will attempt to describe who is developing the most promising systems.

- [NASA Ames:Water Supply for trip to Mars](https://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20160014539.pdf) 2016 list of relevant treatment technologies.
- [Soil Science Society](https://www.soils.org/newsroom/releases/2015/1005/707/)
- [New Frontiers of Soil and Plant Science](https://scisoc.confex.com/scisoc/2016am/webprogram/Session16099.html)
- [The Martian: Back of the Envelope Botany: What's really needed for total reuse: Bruce Bugbee](https://scisoc.confex.com/scisoc/2016am/videogateway.cgi/id/27876?recordingid=27876)

Commit message:

2020.Feb addition of NSF list

content/intro.md, after:


#### Most Recent Update

Published as JupyterBook on Monday, August 19, 2019, and revised on Friday morning, September 27, 2019
New material: 28 Oct 2019
Revision: 13 Feb 2020

# Overview

Hundreds of firms in the US, Europe, Japan and China sell on-site systems that treat household waste water to almost-potable or potable levels.

Here's a list of global firms that is kept up-to-date by NSF, an independent testing organization:  [https://info.nsf.org/Certified/Wastewater/Listings.asp?TradeName=&Standard=040]

It has links to websites for each firm.  I will compile a summary of what is available, but, for now, a 600 gallon per day system that could support a family of 4 costs about $4,500.  Addition of final treatment to make the effluent potable, and addition of sophisticated testing for pathogens could add $500. 

As an example, see Norweco, distributed by Home Depot in the US: [ https://www.norweco.com/residential/hydro-kinetic-concrete/ ]  or [ https://www.homedepot.com/p/Norweco-Singulair-Green-600-GPD-Aerobic-Tank-Septic-Replacement-Shipping-Included-960G-500X-210P/300786435].

# Survey of international and US technology for household-level wastewater processing

These systems are subcomponents of **net-zero self-sustaining systems for life support**, once only designed for space stations and planetary exploration.  Advances in the aerospace communities are now applied to devices for use in slum and rural communities on Earth.

[See this 2015 Article: _The World's Need for Household Water Treatment_](https://awwa.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.5942/jawwa.2015.107.0144)

This site surveys the science, engineering, construction, and operation of **household-size water and wastewater treatment systems**, with specific focus on wastewater recovery and reuse.

As an science-fiction example of a net-zero life support system, see ["_The Martian_"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ej3ioOneTy8) showing imagined total material reuse for water and wastes on the surface of Mars. All energy derives directly from the Sun; there is no source of new water. Everything must be recovered.

 Can such a system work?

 For those of us on Earth, can we recover potable water and nutrients from wastewater?  Inexpensively? in our homes and businesses, in cities and in rural areas?

Hundreds of research groups, companies, and governments have invested hundreds of millions of dollars to develop systems capable of treating household wastes for water recovery and energy conversion at the household level (see list below).

Military, maritime and aerospace systems are constantly redesigned with promising new technologies. This site will attempt to describe who is developing the most promising systems.

- [NASA Ames:Water Supply for trip to Mars](https://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20160014539.pdf) 2016 list of relevant treatment technologies.
- [Soil Science Society](https://www.soils.org/newsroom/releases/2015/1005/707/)
- [New Frontiers of Soil and Plant Science](https://scisoc.confex.com/scisoc/2016am/webprogram/Session16099.html)
- [The Martian: Back of the Envelope Botany: What's really needed for total reuse: Bruce Bugbee](https://scisoc.confex.com/scisoc/2016am/videogateway.cgi/id/27876?recordingid=27876)
